brulee 0.2.0 article (#594)
tidyverse/tidyverse.org: content/blog/brulee-0-2-0/index.Rmd

---
output: hugodown::hugo_document

slug: brulee-0-2-0
title: brulee 0.2.0
date: 2022-09-26
author: Max Kuhn
description: >
    Version 0.2.0 of brulee introduces learning rate schedulers. 

photo:
  url: https://unsplash.com/photos/wiTWDYLURr8
  author: Alex Munsell

# one of: "deep-dive", "learn", "package", "programming", "roundup", or "other"
categories: [package] 
tags: [tidymodels, brulee]
---

> We're thrilled to announce the release of [brulee](https://tidymodels.github.io/brulee/) 0.2.0. brulee contains several basic modeling functions that use the torch package infrastructure, such as: neural networks, linear regression, logistic regression, and multinomial regression. 

Reviewer: "torch package infrastructure" sounds a bit awkward to me. Would something like

"bluree contains an R interface (or R wrappers) to several torch models such as ... "

describe brulee correctly?

You can install it from CRAN with:

```{r, eval = FALSE}
install.packages("brulee")
```

> This blog post will describe the changes to the package. You can see a full list of changes in the [release notes](https://tidymodels.github.io/brulee/news/index.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This blog post will describe the changes to the package. You can see a full list of changes in the [release notes](https://tidymodels.github.io/brulee/news/index.html).
```

There were two main additions to brulee. 

> First, since brulee is focused on fitting models to _tabular data_, we've been be moving away from optimizing via stochastic gradient descent (SGD) as the default. For `brulee_mlp()`, we switched the default optimizer from SGD to more traditional quasi-newton methods, specifically to Broyden–Fletcher–Goldfarb–Shanno algorithm (BFGS) method. You can still use SGD via the `optimizer` option. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, since brulee is focused on fitting models to _tabular data_, we have moved away from optimizing via stochastic gradient descent (SGD) as the default. For `brulee_mlp()`, we switched the default optimizer from SGD to more traditional quasi-newton methods, specifically to Broyden–Fletcher–Goldfarb–Shanno algorithm (BFGS) method. You can still use SGD via the `optimizer` option. 
```

> Second, we've added [learning rate schedulers](https://www.google.com/search?rls=en&q=%22learning+rate+schedule%22) to `brulee_mlp()`. The learning rate is one of the most important parameters to tune and there is an existing option to have a constant learning rate (via the `learn_rate` argument). However, there is some intuition that the rate should probably decrease once the optimizer is closer to the best solution (to avoid overshooting the target). A scheduler is just a function that adjusts the rate over time. Apart from a constant learning rate (the default), the options are: cyclic, exponential decay, time-based decay, and step functions: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Second, we've added [learning rate schedulers](https://www.google.com/search?rls=en&q=%22learning+rate+schedule%22) to `brulee_mlp()`. The learning rate is one of the most important parameters to tune. There is an existing option to have a constant learning rate (via the `learn_rate` argument). However, there is some intuition that the rate should probably decrease once the optimizer is closer to the best solution (to avoid overshooting the target). A scheduler is a function that adjusts the rate over time. Apart from a constant learning rate (the default), the options are cyclic, exponential decay, time-based decay, and step functions: 
```

```{r echo = FALSE, fig.align='center'}
knitr::include_graphics("rates.png")
```

The corresponding [set of functions](https://tidymodels.github.io/brulee/reference/schedule_decay_time.html) share the prefix `schedule_*()`. 

> To use these with `brulee_mlp()`, there is a  `rate_schedule` argument with possible values: `"none"` (the default), `"decay_time"`, `"decay_expo"`, `"cyclic"` and `"step"`. Each function has arguments and these can be passed directly to `brulee_mlp()`. The `rate_schedule` argument can also be tuned as any other engine-specific parameter.

Reviewer: I think an example would be really helpful here, even if it's just the syntax (rather than running the whole model). 

I first thought those functions were dials functions but they are not. I looked at the linked reference page from the brulee pkgdown site but also there is no example of how to use them in a neural network. There is however something that looks very much like a placeholder for this kind of example:

```
# ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
# Use with neural network
```
